Let's go back and talk influence.
We'll spend some time on one way that
governance professionals are expected to influence organizational strategy.
They may take part in or actually
lead what we call an information security steering committee.
These committees in many organizations are used
to ensure that security goals align with business objectives.
They do this by fostering an open dialogue
between operational stakeholders and security leadership.
Now why the governance role specifically?
We tend to think of this as part of security governance for two reasons.
First, because of the role that they play
in communicating with the organization at large.
Remember, they develop and manage policies and
procedures and then communicate them to the organization.
Additionally, that development and delivery of end-user security training.
Not to mention that much of the security steering committee's
decision-making actually ends up as security policy.
Then second, governance professionals tend to have a well-rounded understanding of
the organization security posture because of
the work that they do, measuring control effectiveness.
Behind the closed doors of the security steering committee meeting,
what is really happening is a transfer of information.
The business provides strategic information to security stakeholders so that GRC
and operational security goals can be set in a way that supports that strategy.
I can't stress enough how important steering committees are,
or at least something like them.
I've spent the better part of my career working to break down silos and
organizations that exist between the security and business organizations,
between security and legal,
and between security and operations.
For me, it's always been
that security steering committee that provides the platform to do just that.
The committee builds the bridge,
but it's up to you as the security professionals to use
that opportunity to build trust and act in support of the business,
use security mechanisms, and work toward solutions that can be supported.
IT operations and cybersecurity don't
exist without the products and services of the business.
The committee facilitates conversation,
but you have to always remember that
security exist to be a support system rather than an encumbrance.
Too often, security can think of itself as
a gate and they make decisions in a vacuum about whether something is or is not secure.
The steering committee is your place to voice your opinion.
But effective alignment of security goals means working to help create solutions.
Let me give you an example. Imagine that your company has spent
the last six months secretly developing a new product.
As part of the product launch,
they've also created a brand new web presence.
That was all very hush, hush.
So secret that they actually hired
outside contractors to develop the website that promotes the product.
Now it's two weeks before the launch and you're sitting
down to an information security steering committee meeting.
In fact, it's
the first ever information security steering committee meeting at your organization.
One of the senior business leaders leans over and says, "Hey, listen.
Just FYI, we do have this new product
and this website that we're about to launch, just FYI."
To make a long story short,
you convince the business leaders that you
really should test the website before it goes live.
Lo and behold, you discover that it has critical flaws.
Flaws that could result in data loss,
credit card theft, public embarrassment,
you name it, it's got it. What do you do?
Do you tell the company to delay the launch?
Now that is probably a great way to never have another steering committee meeting.
Obviously, the mistake here is that the dialog should have been created a long time ago.
But now you're in a position which probably best to help find an answer that does both,
it works to keep the company safe and it enables the product launch.
As you build trust,
more information will be exposed in these meetings.
We've talked a really good amount about using
steering committees to align business and security goals.
Mostly we've discussed them in the context of
the business providing information to security leadership.
You want to align goals, and in this way,
these committee meetings can be a time when confidential information is
shared between stakeholders to produce better outcomes.
But these meetings can also be used to develop a two-way conversation.
They can also be used as a time for senior leaders
to provide oversight and security activities,
set or approve security policy,
or be a place for you to provide updates on
overall security posture or discuss new and emerging threats with senior leadership.
The idea is simply to promote effective communication.
But effective also means being selective.
Membership should be kept relatively low with only a handful or so of key stakeholders.
Every one of those members should be in a position
to influence and also be strategic thinkers.